.TH NIGHTHAWK 6 "Version 4.x" Nighthawk GAMES

.SH NAME
nighthawk 4.x

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
nighthawk [options]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

This is a restored arcade game written in the 1990s for Unix/XWindows 
systems. It has been ported to OpenGL and OpenAL for maximum 
portability. See README file in archive distribution for more info.

.SH NIGHTHAWK - PARADROID CHAPTER II - THE RESCUE FROM VEGA

The Earth forces have ambushed an enemy fleet transporting captured 
Earth vessels bound for Vega (Codenamed the "Nighthawk" fleet). While 
crews were boarding these ships for repairs, surviving Vegarian crew 
destroyed each ship's warp core. This has made the ships very 
radioactive, causing many of the droids on board these ships to
go 'rogue'.  Our last contact with the crew indicated heavy loss of life. 
All attempts at contact or rescue have proved futile. We can only fear 
the worst...

However, we have depatched a Class 002 Paradroid. Improved over the 
001 class, the 002 will teleport to each ship and annihilate all droids.

.SH GAME PLAY

"It isn't enough to regain your fleet in galactic space, and then having 
to deal with the sticky mess of containing your sabotaged droids. Who 
would have thought? Mmmm. This is bound to make any Commander roll his 
eyes and slowly face palm. Luckily we have 00x class droids to deal with 
situations like these. I'm so glad we packed them!".

The mission is simple: Board each ship of the Nighthawk fleet and slate 
all droids. Continue until all of the ships of the Nighthawk fleet are 
clear.

You start out on each ship, as a 002 Paradroid. In the original game, 
you controlled a 001 Influence device. They differ in the way they 
control their hosts. The 001 droid was basically a helmet that fitted 
over the host droid's head, and could control it for a certain length of 
time. The 002 droid however actually transfers its firmware over to the 
new host, effectively 'becoming' it, and destroying the old host it 
occupied.

There are good and bad points to this.  The good point is that you can
occupy the host droid for an unlimited length of time, the bad point is
that you are stuck with the new host's weaponry, speed and shields.


.SH OPTIONS

Nighthawk game options
.nf
 -h or -?         Display this help info.
 -f <Fleet name>  Start at a given fleet.
 -c <Ship name>   Start at a given ship.
.fi

Specifying a shipname with -c will mean any score you get will not be added
to the scoring table.

.SH KEY SUMMARY

.nf
 cursor keys    - move
 NumPad keys    - move
 left click     - fire
 right click    - panic fire
 space          - activate (lift, computer)
 t or Enter     - toggle transfer mode
 c              - Cascade mode (similar to transfer mode, but persistent)
 f              - display of Frames per Second.
 g              - Mouse grab function (stops mouse pointer leaving game)
 h or p         - Key cheat sheet/pause.
 s              - display status
 p              - pause
 q              - quit
.fi

.SH MOVEMENT

Use the cursor keys to move around each map. To open a door, either shoot
it (see below) or move into it. Doors will close again after a short time.

To move around the ship, you must use the lifts (these look like squares 
with a cross through them, you normally start on one). To use a lift, 
move over it and press space. A map of the ship will appear, showing all 
the lifts and a turning square which represents your droid. Press up or 
down to the level you want to go to, and then press space to exit the 
lift.

.SH ATTACKING

To shoot, click the left mouse button at the target you are aiming at. A
right mouse click does a burst fire which fires shots in all directions.

The spin speed of a droid indicates how charged the shields of the droid 
are. At full spin, the droid is fully charged. When a droid has less 
than 1/4 shields green lights flash, and when they have less than 1/8 
shields red lights flash instead. To recharge shields, move over a 
recharging point (they have swirly bits in them) and press space. This will
use points off your score until you are recharged.

.SH TRANSFERRING

You won't get far in Nighthawk unless you learn to transfer to different 
droids. To transfer to a different droid, press "t" or "c" (white lights 
will start flashing and you will be unable to shoot) then click on a 
nearby droid (even one on the other side of a wall). The two droids will 
"negotiate" (what a euphemism !) to see which one lives. During 
negotiations, neither droid can shoot.

During the negotiations a bar will appear - the green part represents your
droid and the blue bar represents the enemy droid. The relative amounts of
these bars will change as the droids battle each other. When the bar has
turned one color, that droid wins. The negotiation will be broken off if
the two droids move too far apart.

As a general rule, don't negotiate with a droid that is more than two
classes above you - e.g if you are in a 423, negotiating with a 606 is
okay, but a 713 will probably kill you.

.SH STATUS

Pressing "s" will display the number of shields you have left and the
number of droids left on the ship. When something interesting happens,a
status message will appear. Here are some:

 shields=10      You have 10 shields left.
 droids=9/64     9 droids alive on floor. 64 alive droids on ship.
 002 d 107       002 droid destroyed 107 droid.
 002 h 423(8)    002 droid hit 423 droid (who now has 8 shields left).
 600 captured    Started negotiating with 600 droid.
 lost contact    Stopped negotiations (droids move too far apart).
 boost!          Shields are recharging/recharged (when over a powerbay).

.SH COMPUTERS

To find out information about your droid, go to a computer in the wall and
press space. Use the cursor keys to look at different droids, you can find
out:

 Type    -  Droid number
 Name    -  Title of the droid
 Entry   -  "Negotiation" skills
 Height  -  In metres
 Weight  -  In kilograms
 Brain   -  Intelligence of the droid
 Arm     -  Weapon type (armament)
 Shield  -  Shield strength
 Speed   -  How fast the droid can move
 Attack  -  Aggressiveness of the droid

.SH SCORING

  Recharging shields - Charging is one for one against score. ie: You charge
                       10 points, 10 points are deducted from your score.
  Hit droid          - Entry level
  Destroyed droid    - 50 x entry level
  Transferring       - 100 x entry level

As it can be seen, you get more points for transferring than 
firing/destroying a droid. If you cause cross fire with other droids, 
those count as points to your score.


.SH WEAPON TYPES

.nf
	                 Speed  Damage    
	Linarite         8      4         
	Crocoite-Benzol  10     10        
	Uvarovite        12     20        
	Tiger-Eye Quartz 9      50        
.fi


.SH DROID TYPES

.TP
.B 0xx - Prototype Class              

These droids are a prototype/experimental class that vary in function
considerably. Approach with caution. 

.TP
.B 1xx - Cleaning Droids              

Mindless, slow, low shielded, unarmed droids that clean the ships. 
Harmless. 

.TP
.B 2xx - Logistic/Servant Droids      

Again, brainless droids that do various tasks.  These type can vary in
shield and strength.  This class is harmless as well.

.TP
.B 3xx - Messenger Droids             

Mindless, but very fast. Low shield rating, and are not armed.

.TP
.B 4xx - Maintenance Droids           

Designed to repair the ships. Vary in shield and speed ratings. Sometimes
armed.

.TP
.B 5xx - Medical Droids               

These droids have a high entry level, and are difficult to crack. All of
them are armed, but are not hostile. However, they will shoot at any
droids that attack them.

.TP
.B 6xx - Sentinel Droids              

These droids 'guard' certain important areas of the ships like lifts,
power bays and other droids. They vary in shield rating, speed and fire
power, but all are armed and will attack.  Approach with caution.

.TP
.B 7xx - Battle Droids                

This class of droid 'hunts'.  When confronted, any will attack.  They
vary in speed, shield rating and weaponry, but all are extremely
dangerous.

.TP
.B 8xx - Crew Droids                  

These are armed droids that control the ship.  Like the 5xx class, these
are not hostile, but will become hostile to any droids that attack them.
8xx's are armed with Uvarovite lasers, and pack a rather powerful wallop.

.TP
.B 9xx - Command Cyborgs              

Each ship will have one of these. They command the ships.  Extremely
armed, extremely shielded, often very fast, and very deadly.


.SH THE NIGHTHAWK FLEET

.nf
	Ship          Type               Difficulty
	-------------------------------------------
	Haldeck       Fleet Support      Very easy
	Seafarer      Cargo Vessel       Moderate
	Anoyle        Attack Frigate     Difficult
	Esperence     Battle Cruiser     Tricky/Very difficult
	Ophukus       Medical Frigate    Moderate (lots of 5xx's)
	Mearkat       Scout Ship         Tricky/Difficult
	Friendship    Destroyer Class    Tricky/Difficult (6xx's)
	Discovery     Scientific Frigate Difficult (lots of 8xx's)
	Zaxon         Battle Cruiser     Tricky/Very difficult (7xx's)
	Tobruk        Flag Ship          EXTREMELY difficult
.fi

To start at a particular ship, run nighthawk like this:

	nighthawk -c <ship name>

Note that the high score table will treat this as cheating.


.SH GAME TIPS

If possible, create 'friendly fire'. This is very easy to do. Get 
in between any two armed droids. If one fires at you, simply duck at the 
last moment (if not, then just shoot at one). Their laser fire 
will/should/hopefully hit the other droid. The other droid will then 
fire back at the droid that accidently attacked it. When the attacking 
droid is hit, it will fire back at the droid firing at it....hence a 
shoot out will occur. The result is either two destroyed droids, or one 
left with a reduced shield.

Another good thing about friendly fire is that it's an excellent
distraction. Any 6xx,7xx, 9xx droids involved in one, won't be concerned
with you at all; they will be too busy blowing away their mate.

Always duck for cover when fired upon, and when you shoot a droid fitted
with weapons, be ready to duck for cover.  Don't just take it. Armed
droids will always return fire immediately with an equal or greater rate.

Get into the habit of firing a 4-6 round volley, then ducking behind a 
wall, door, storage unit... or even another droid. 261's are excellent 
to hide behind. These droids are industrial cargo movers. Being heavy 
machinery, they have a very high shield rating and can buffer many laser 
blows. Medical Droids (5xx series) are another good example. Medical 
droids are armed but passive. They won't attack anyone unless fired 
upon. When an attack droid is firing at you, duck behind a medical 
droid. If the attacking droid hits the medic, then the medic will fire 
(one shot) back at the attacking droid (yet another 'friendly fire' 
example). The 599 Surgeon droids are fitted with the powerful Uvarovite 
lasers, and will cheerfully waste any minor class 6xx's or 7xx's that 
accidently attack it.

This game requires lots of lateral thinking. Simply blasting everything in
sight is not going to get you very far (maybe the first and second ship if
you're lucky). You have to rely on transferring to higher order droids
in order to conquer droids with more fire power than yourself or to go
through walls. You have to shoot smart. Hostile droids will always attack
with an equal or greater rate. With "head-on" shoot outs (that most
newbies will tend to do), it's only a matter of who has the bigger shields
and lasers who will win. Some droids are simply too risky to confront,
like 799's, and 9xx's. It's far better to transfer to them through a wall
(where you can't get shot at). In Ship "Zaxon" you are forced to confront
7xx's head on as there are so many of them (good luck with that ;).

On some ships, be selective with which droids to destroy. You may need to
transfer back through a wall in order to return to the place you started.

(Game tip: In the Hull of SS Esperence, leave the 368 droid till last. 
This droid goes from one end of the Hull to the other, and you are able 
to transfer (through the wall) back to the other sections of the ship if 
you have forgotten to kill droids in those areas).

As a general rule, if a 6xx is shooting at you, don't shoot back, instead
duck for cover, even if you sustain some hits doing it. Don't stand your
ground and fire back. However, with 7xx's & 9xx's, because of their
unpredictable behaviour and rapid fire power, the above tactic may not
work.

Nb/ there is a systematic "knack" to completing the levels.


.SH CONTACTS

Sourceforge/git Admin, curation, PR, bug reports:
   Eric Gillespie (brickviking, DrSmokey)
   Christchurch, New Zealand
   Email: viking667@users.sourceforge.net
   Web: https://night-hawk.sourceforge.net
   project: https://www.sourceforge.net/projects/night-hawk

Author:
   Jason Nunn (JsNO)
   Adelaide, South Australia
   Email: jsno8192@gmail.com
   Web: http://users.on.net/~jsno

Music Author:
   Vincent Voois
   The Netherlands
   Web: https://www.vincentvoois.com

.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

  Eric Gillespie........ Testing and support.
  Vincent Voois......... Music.
  Adrian Bridgett....... 1.x debugging, edited instructions.
  Rafael Laboissiere.... Cascade mode.
  Tanel Kulaots......... Level continuance.
  Nelson Minar.......... Small code mods in 2.2.
  Wolfgang Scherer...... Code, autoconfig/automake scripts.
  Eero Tamminen......... Created this manual.
  giantclambake......... 4.0 Testing, suggestions, feedback, proof reading.
